# Americas_Top_Colleges
America's Top Colleges: A Project Using Excel (2016) and R/RStudio

This study answers two primary questions: (1) Which are the top colleges in the United States, and (2) Which institutional features predict long-term financial returns for their graduates? Section one addresses the first question. Beginning with over 6,500 schools, I use data on cost of attendance, student earnings, debt, completion rates, student retention, and return on investment to identify the top 18 colleges/universities in the US. The data indicate that Princeton University and Stanford University are the top two colleges in the US. An interactive dashboard allows exploration and visualization of this analysis. Section two addresses the second question. Using statistical and multivariate regression analysis, I show that the 3 most statistically significant predictors of long-term financial returns for their graduates are TUITIONFEE_OUT, AVGFACSAL, and RET_FT4_POOLED. It is assumed that future earnings is a driving concern among those selecting a college to attend, and for that reason special attention is given to dependent variables having to do with future earnings.

The first part of this study is available as an Excel (.xlxs) file here: https://github.com/RKeith2/Americas_Top_Colleges/blob/main/America's%20Top%20Colleges.xlsx. The file may be downloaded for viewing. The file contains several tabs, including an interactive dashboard for visualizing the data and my analyis thereof.

The second part of this study, the statistical and predictive analysis, was completed using the programming language 'R' in the RStudio platform. The analysis, including the R code used to create it, is posted on Kaggle at this link: https://www.kaggle.com/code/rkeith2/america-s-top-colleges. 
